now Jacob heard the words of Laban sons
now Jacob heard the words of Laban sons Jacob has taken away all that was our
Jacob has taken away all that was our
Jacob has taken away all that was our fathers and from what was our fathers he
fathers and from what was our fathers he
fathers and from what was our fathers he has acquired all this wealth and Jacob
has acquired all this wealth and Jacob
has acquired all this wealth and Jacob saw the countenance of Laban and indeed
saw the countenance of Laban and indeed
saw the countenance of Laban and indeed it was not favorable toward him as
it was not favorable toward him as
it was not favorable toward him as before then the Lord said to Jacob
before then the Lord said to Jacob
before then the Lord said to Jacob return to the land of your father's and
return to the land of your father's and
return to the land of your father's and to your family and I will be with you
to your family and I will be with you
to your family and I will be with you so Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah
so Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah
so Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field to his flock I see your
to the field to his flock I see your
to the field to his flock I see your father's countenance that it is not
father's countenance that it is not
father's countenance that it is not favorable toward me as before but the
favorable toward me as before but the
favorable toward me as before but the god of my father has been with me and
god of my father has been with me and
god of my father has been with me and you know that with all my might I have
you know that with all my might I have
you know that with all my might I have served your father yet your father has
served your father yet your father has
served your father yet your father has deceived me and changed my wages ten
deceived me and changed my wages ten
deceived me and changed my wages ten times but God did not allow him to hurt
times but God did not allow him to hurt
times but God did not allow him to hurt me if he said thus the speckled shall be
me if he said thus the speckled shall be
me if he said thus the speckled shall be your wages than all the flocks for
your wages than all the flocks for
your wages than all the flocks for speckled and if he said thus the
speckled and if he said thus the
speckled and if he said thus the streaked shall be your wages then all
streaked shall be your wages then all
streaked shall be your wages then all the flocks for streaked so God has taken
the flocks for streaked so God has taken
the flocks for streaked so God has taken away the livestock of your father and
away the livestock of your father and
away the livestock of your father and given them to me and it happened at the
given them to me and it happened at the
given them to me and it happened at the time when the flux conceived that I
time when the flux conceived that I
time when the flux conceived that I lifted my eyes and saw in a dream and
lifted my eyes and saw in a dream and
lifted my eyes and saw in a dream and behold the rams which leaped upon the
behold the rams which leaped upon the
behold the rams which leaped upon the flocks were streaked speckled and gray
flocks were streaked speckled and gray
flocks were streaked speckled and gray spotted then the angel of God spoke to
spotted then the angel of God spoke to
spotted then the angel of God spoke to me in a dream saying Jacob and I said
me in a dream saying Jacob and I said
me in a dream saying Jacob and I said Here I am
Here I am
Here I am and he said lift your eyes now and see
and he said lift your eyes now and see
and he said lift your eyes now and see all the rams which sleep on the flocks
all the rams which sleep on the flocks
all the rams which sleep on the flocks are streaked speckled and gray spotted
are streaked speckled and gray spotted
are streaked speckled and gray spotted for I have seen all that Laban is doing
for I have seen all that Laban is doing
for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you I am the God of Bethel where you
to you I am the God of Bethel where you
to you I am the God of Bethel where you anointed the pillar and where you made a
anointed the pillar and where you made a
anointed the pillar and where you made a vow to me
vow to me
vow to me now arise get out of this land and
now arise get out of this land and
now arise get out of this land and return to the land of your family bring
return to the land of your family bring
return to the land of your family bring Rachel and Leah answered is there still
Rachel and Leah answered is there still
Rachel and Leah answered is there still any portion or inheritance for us in our
any portion or inheritance for us in our
any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house
father's house
father's house are we not considered strangers by him
are we not considered strangers by him
are we not considered strangers by him for he has sold us and also completely
for he has sold us and also completely
for he has sold us and also completely consumed our money for all these riches
consumed our money for all these riches
consumed our money for all these riches which God has taken from our Father are
which God has taken from our Father are
which God has taken from our Father are really ours and our children's now then
really ours and our children's now then
really ours and our children's now then whatever God has said to you do it then
whatever God has said to you do it then
whatever God has said to you do it then Jacob rose and said his sons and his
Jacob rose and said his sons and his
Jacob rose and said his sons and his wives on camels and he carried away all
wives on camels and he carried away all
wives on camels and he carried away all his livestock and all his possessions
his livestock and all his possessions
his livestock and all his possessions which he had gained his acquired
which he had gained his acquired
which he had gained his acquired livestock which he had gained in Paden
livestock which he had gained in Paden
livestock which he had gained in Paden era to go to his father Isaac in the
era to go to his father Isaac in the
era to go to his father Isaac in the land of Canaan
now Laban had gone to share his sheep
now Laban had gone to share his sheep and Rachel had stolen the household
and Rachel had stolen the household
and Rachel had stolen the household idols that were her father's and Jacob
idols that were her father's and Jacob
idols that were her father's and Jacob stole away unknown to Laban the Syrian
stole away unknown to Laban the Syrian
stole away unknown to Laban the Syrian in that he did not tell him that he
in that he did not tell him that he
in that he did not tell him that he intended to flee so he fled with all but
intended to flee so he fled with all but
intended to flee so he fled with all but he had he arose and crossed the river
he had he arose and crossed the river
he had he arose and crossed the river and headed toward the mountains of
and headed toward the mountains of
and headed toward the mountains of Gilead and Laban was told on the third
Gilead and Laban was told on the third
Gilead and Laban was told on the third day that Jacob had fled then he took his
day that Jacob had fled then he took his
day that Jacob had fled then he took his brethren with him and pursued him for
brethren with him and pursued him for
brethren with him and pursued him for seven days journey and he overtook him
seven days journey and he overtook him
seven days journey and he overtook him in the mountains of Gilead but God had
in the mountains of Gilead but God had
in the mountains of Gilead but God had come to Laban the Syrian in a dream by
come to Laban the Syrian in a dream by
come to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night and said to him be careful that
night and said to him be careful that
night and said to him be careful that you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad
you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad
you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad so Laban overtook Jacob now Jacob had
so Laban overtook Jacob now Jacob had
so Laban overtook Jacob now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mountains and
pitched his tent in the mountains and
pitched his tent in the mountains and Laban with his brethren pitched in the
Laban with his brethren pitched in the
Laban with his brethren pitched in the mountains of Gilead and Laban said to
mountains of Gilead and Laban said to
mountains of Gilead and Laban said to Jacob what have you done that you have
Jacob what have you done that you have
Jacob what have you done that you have stolen away unknown to me and carried
stolen away unknown to me and carried
stolen away unknown to me and carried away my daughters like captives taken
away my daughters like captives taken
away my daughters like captives taken with the sword why did you flee away
with the sword why did you flee away
with the sword why did you flee away secretly and steal away from me and not
secretly and steal away from me and not
secretly and steal away from me and not tell me for I might have sent you away
tell me for I might have sent you away
tell me for I might have sent you away with joy songs with timbrel and harp and
with joy songs with timbrel and harp and
with joy songs with timbrel and harp and you did not allow me to kiss my sons and
you did not allow me to kiss my sons and
you did not allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters now you have done foolishly
my daughters now you have done foolishly
my daughters now you have done foolishly in so doing it is in my power to do you
in so doing it is in my power to do you
in so doing it is in my power to do you harm but the god of your father spoke to
harm but the god of your father spoke to
harm but the god of your father spoke to me last night saying be careful that you
me last night saying be careful that you
me last night saying be careful that you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad
speak to Jacob neither good nor bad
speak to Jacob neither good nor bad and now you are surely gone because you
and now you are surely gone because you
and now you are surely gone because you greatly longed for your father's house
greatly longed for your father's house
greatly longed for your father's house but why did you steal my God's because I
but why did you steal my God's because I
but why did you steal my God's because I was afraid for I said perhaps you would
was afraid for I said perhaps you would
was afraid for I said perhaps you would take your daughters from me by force
take your daughters from me by force
take your daughters from me by force with whomever you find your gods do not
with whomever you find your gods do not
with whomever you find your gods do not let him live in the presence of our
let him live in the presence of our
let him live in the presence of our brethren identify what I have of yours
brethren identify what I have of yours
brethren identify what I have of yours and take it with you for Jacob did not
and take it with you for Jacob did not
and take it with you for Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them and
know that Rachel had stolen them and
know that Rachel had stolen them and Laban went into Jacobs tent into Leah's
Laban went into Jacobs tent into Leah's
Laban went into Jacobs tent into Leah's tent and into the two mates tents but he
tent and into the two mates tents but he
tent and into the two mates tents but he did not find them then he went out of
did not find them then he went out of
did not find them then he went out of Leah's tent and entered Rachel's tent
Leah's tent and entered Rachel's tent
Leah's tent and entered Rachel's tent now Rachel had taken the household idols
now Rachel had taken the household idols
now Rachel had taken the household idols put them in the camel saddle and sat on
put them in the camel saddle and sat on
put them in the camel saddle and sat on and Laban searched all about the tent
and Laban searched all about the tent
and Laban searched all about the tent but did not find them and she said to
but did not find them and she said to
but did not find them and she said to her father let it not displease my Lord
her father let it not displease my Lord
her father let it not displease my Lord that I cannot rise before you for the
that I cannot rise before you for the
that I cannot rise before you for the manner of women is with me he searched
manner of women is with me he searched
manner of women is with me he searched but did not find the household idols
but did not find the household idols
but did not find the household idols then Jacob was angry and rebuked Flavin
then Jacob was angry and rebuked Flavin
then Jacob was angry and rebuked Flavin what is my trespass what is my sin that
what is my trespass what is my sin that
what is my trespass what is my sin that you have so hotly pursued me although
you have so hotly pursued me although
you have so hotly pursued me although you have searched all my things what
you have searched all my things what
you have searched all my things what part of your household things have you
part of your household things have you
part of your household things have you found set it here before my brethren and
found set it here before my brethren and
found set it here before my brethren and your brethren that they may judge
your brethren that they may judge
your brethren that they may judge between us both these twenty years I
between us both these twenty years I
between us both these twenty years I have been with you your use and your
have been with you your use and your
have been with you your use and your female goats have not miscarried their
female goats have not miscarried their
female goats have not miscarried their young and I have not eaten the Rams of
young and I have not eaten the Rams of
young and I have not eaten the Rams of your flock that which was torn by beasts
your flock that which was torn by beasts
your flock that which was torn by beasts I did not bring to you I bore the loss
I did not bring to you I bore the loss
I did not bring to you I bore the loss of it you required it from my hand
of it you required it from my hand
of it you required it from my hand whether stolen by day or stolen by night
whether stolen by day or stolen by night
whether stolen by day or stolen by night there I was in the day the drought
there I was in the day the drought
there I was in the day the drought consumed me and the frost by night and
consumed me and the frost by night and
consumed me and the frost by night and my sleep departed from my eyes thus I
my sleep departed from my eyes thus I
my sleep departed from my eyes thus I have been in your house twenty years I
have been in your house twenty years I
have been in your house twenty years I served you 14 years for your two
served you 14 years for your two
served you 14 years for your two daughters in six years for your flock
daughters in six years for your flock
daughters in six years for your flock and you have changed my wages ten times
and you have changed my wages ten times
and you have changed my wages ten times unless the God of my father the God of
unless the God of my father the God of
unless the God of my father the God of Abraham and the fear of Isaac had been
Abraham and the fear of Isaac had been
Abraham and the fear of Isaac had been with me surely now you would have sent
with me surely now you would have sent
with me surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed God has seen my
me away empty-handed God has seen my
me away empty-handed God has seen my affliction and the labor of my hands and
affliction and the labor of my hands and
affliction and the labor of my hands and rebuked you last night these daughters
rebuked you last night these daughters
rebuked you last night these daughters are my daughters and these children are
are my daughters and these children are
are my daughters and these children are my children and this flock is my flock
my children and this flock is my flock
my children and this flock is my flock all that you see is mine what can I do
all that you see is mine what can I do
all that you see is mine what can I do this day to these my daughters or to
this day to these my daughters or to
this day to these my daughters or to their children whom they have borne now
their children whom they have borne now
their children whom they have borne now therefore come let us make a covenant to
therefore come let us make a covenant to
therefore come let us make a covenant to you and I and let it be a witness
you and I and let it be a witness
you and I and let it be a witness between you and me
between you and me
between you and me so Jacob took a stone and set it up as a
so Jacob took a stone and set it up as a
so Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar then Jacob said to his brethren
pillar then Jacob said to his brethren
pillar then Jacob said to his brethren gather stones and they took stones and
gather stones and they took stones and
gather stones and they took stones and made a heap and they ate there on the
made a heap and they ate there on the
made a heap and they ate there on the heap
heap
heap Laban called it jjigae sejahtera
Laban called it jjigae sejahtera
Laban called it jjigae sejahtera but Jacob called it gal yet this heap is
but Jacob called it gal yet this heap is
but Jacob called it gal yet this heap is a witness between you and me this day
a witness between you and me this day
a witness between you and me this day therefore its name was called gali it
therefore its name was called gali it
therefore its name was called gali it also Misbah because he said may the Lord
also Misbah because he said may the Lord
also Misbah because he said may the Lord watch between you and me when we are
watch between you and me when we are
watch between you and me when we are absent one from another
absent one from another
absent one from another if you afflict my daughters or if you
if you afflict my daughters or if you
if you afflict my daughters or if you take other wives besides my daughters
take other wives besides my daughters
take other wives besides my daughters although no man is with us see God is
although no man is with us see God is
although no man is with us see God is witness between you and me here is this
witness between you and me here is this
witness between you and me here is this heap and here is this pillar which I
heap and here is this pillar which I
heap and here is this pillar which I have placed between you and me this heap
have placed between you and me this heap
have placed between you and me this heap is a witness and this pillar is a
is a witness and this pillar is a
is a witness and this pillar is a witness that I will not pass beyond this
witness that I will not pass beyond this
witness that I will not pass beyond this heap to you and you will not pass beyond
heap to you and you will not pass beyond
heap to you and you will not pass beyond this heap and this pillar to me for harm
this heap and this pillar to me for harm
this heap and this pillar to me for harm the God of Abraham the god of Nahar and
the God of Abraham the god of Nahar and
the God of Abraham the god of Nahar and the God of their father judged between
the God of their father judged between
the God of their father judged between us and Jacob swore by the fear of his
us and Jacob swore by the fear of his
us and Jacob swore by the fear of his father Isaac then Jacob offered a
father Isaac then Jacob offered a
father Isaac then Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain and called his
sacrifice on the mountain and called his
sacrifice on the mountain and called his brethren to eat bread
and they ate bread and stayed all night
and they ate bread and stayed all night on the mountain
on the mountain
on the mountain and early in the morning Laban arose and
and early in the morning Laban arose and
and early in the morning Laban arose and kissed his sons and daughters and
kissed his sons and daughters and
kissed his sons and daughters and blessed them then Laban departed and
blessed them then Laban departed and
blessed them then Laban departed and returned to his place